[Console] Document console cursor (#15270)
symfony/symfony-docs: components/console/helpers/cursor.rst

.. index::
    single: Console Helpers; Cursor Helper

Cursor Helper
=============

.. versionadded:: 5.1

    The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Cursor`
    class was introduced in Symfony 5.1.

The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Cursor` allows you to manipulate

> the cursor in a console command like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Cursor` allows you to change the
cursor position in a console command. This allows you to write on any position
of the output:
```

.. image:: /_images/components/console/cursor.gif
   :align: center

> 

Reviewer: Then, I would add a small code example after this gif and especially emphasize that the Cursor only moves the position and you should use the output to write on that position. E.g.

```php
// ...
use Symfony\Component\Console\Cursor;

class AcmeCommand extends Command
{
    // ...

    protected function execute(InputInterface $input, OutputInterface $output): int
    {
        // ...

        $cursor = new Cursor($output);

        // move to a specific column and row using the cursor
        $cursor->moveToPosition(7, 11);
        // and write text on this position using the output
        $output->write('Some text');
    }
}
```

Using the cursor
----------------

The cursor defines several functions and can be used as follow::

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Cursor;
    use Symfony\Component\Console\Output\OutputInterface;

    // creates a new cursor
    $cursor = new Cursor($output);

    // moves the cursor to column and row
    $cursor->moveToPosition(7, 11);

    // moves the cursor to the right
    $cursor->moveRight();

    // clear the current cursor line
    $cursor->clearLine();

>     // [...] read the class to see all the features

Reviewer: I'm in favor of documenting all features in 2 small sections/code examples:

1. Moving the cursor, explaining all `Cursor::move*()` methods. You can show multiple methods with 1 comment, e.g. "Move the cursor to the right/left, or up/down from its current position" and then show moveRight, moveLeft, moveUp, moveDown)
2. Clearing output, explainig all `Cursor::clear*()` methods (these are especially a bit vague, e.g. `clearScreen()` only clears from the current position to the end)

And then show `$cursor->hide()` and `->show()` somewhere as well :)

.. index::
    single: Console Helpers; Cursor Helper

Cursor Helper
=============

.. versionadded:: 5.1

    The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Cursor`
    class was introduced in Symfony 5.1.

The :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Cursor` allows you to change the
cursor position in a console command. This allows you to write on any position
of the output:

.. image:: /_images/components/console/cursor.gif
   :align: center

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php

```

This should fix the Sphinx error :)

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Output\OutputInterface;

    class MyCommand extends Command
    {
        // ...

        public function execute(InputInterface $input, OutputInterface $output)
        {
            // ...

            $cursor = new Cursor($output);

            // moves the cursor to a specific column and row position
            $cursor->moveToPosition(7, 11);

            // and write text on this position using the output
            $output->write('My text');

            // ...
        }
    }

Using the cursor
----------------

Moving the cursor
................

There are fews methods to control moving the command cursor::

    // moves the cursor 1 line up from its current position
    $cursor->moveUp();

    // moves the cursor 3 lines up from its current position
    $cursor->moveUp(3);

    // same for down
    $cursor->moveDown();

    // moves the cursor 1 column right from its current position
    $cursor->moveRight();

    // moves the cursor 3 columns right from its current position
    $cursor->moveRight(3);

    // same for left
    $cursor->moveLeft();

    // move the cursor to a specific position from its current position

>     $cursor->moveToPosition(7, 11);

Reviewer: I haven't used this feature, but I think we have to clearify this a bit. This means 7 lines down, and 11 columns to the right? And I can use negative numbers to achieve the opposite?

Or does this expect a coordinate?

Author: @wouterj it means 7 cols right, 11 rows down from console init cursor
the cursor always moves position from this 0:0 position, thus need an x:y (here positive values) from the init yes
